# DO NOT EDIT THIS PAGE DIRECTLY
### This file is managed in git - edit the markdown source at `src/python/twitter/common/styleguide.md`, and publish with `./pants goal confluence src/python/twitter/common:python-styleguide`


## Overview

The Python style at Twitter closely follows [PEP-8](http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) + [PEP-257](http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257/) with the following modifications:

* 2-space indents instead of 4
* 100-character lines are allowed

## Automated checking

An automated checker for the Twitter Python style guide can be found in Science.

      $ ./pants src/python/twitter/checkstyle:check
      $ dist/check.pex path1 path2 ...

Paths may be files or directories. You may also check the diff of the current branch against another branch, e.g.

      $ dist/check.pex --diff=master


## Basic naming tenets
* Class names should be CamelCased with the first character always capitalized.
* Toplevel and class methods should be snake_cased.
* Private class methods and variables should be prefixed with '_'

## Science-specific guidelines

### Internal libraries
* Do not reinvent the wheel. Take a look in `twitter.common` first.
* If what you're doing seems generic enough, consider factoring it out, adding tests and adding it to `twitter.common`
* Unless your application is trivial, you should probably leverage `twitter.common.app`
* If you need argument parsing, you should definitely be using `twitter.common.app`
* If your script is basic, `print` + `sys.stdout`/`stderr` is fine
* If you ever anticipate running in production, consider using `twitter.common.log`

### External libraries
* No use of global site-packages; instead leverage `python_requirement`s to manage external dependencies.
* In most cases, `python_requirement`s should be specified in 3rdparty/python/BUILD and tied to an explicit version number so as to reduce the possibility of version conflicts within the repository.

### Testing
* Our preferred testing harness is [pytest](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pytest) and is automatically added to the environment of all Python test targets
* Our preferred mocking framework is [mock](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mock)

### Naming
* For autogenerated Python Thrift code, if your project is in `src/python/twitter/thermos/runner`, namespace the Python thrift into `gen.twitter.thermos.runner`. Namespace packages slow down importing for everything, so isolating it into a single `gen` namespace is preferred.

## Importing

Imports should be done in the following order:

* standard library
* science libraries
* code generated libraries
* third party libraries

Within each collection, imports should be lexically ordered. For example:

      import os
      import sys
      import time

      try:
        from twitter.common import log
      except ImportError:
        import logging as log
      from twitter.common.rpc import make_client
      from twitter.common.rpc.finagle import TFinagleProtocolWithClientId

      from thrift.Thrift import TApplicationException
      import zookeeper

If you are importing more than two or three symbols from a single package, consider wrapping the imports as well.


## Best practices

1. Wrapped lines should be indented 4 spaces, rather than aligned with the opening delimiter:

    _No:_

            def my_function(some_args,
                            that_would_be,
                            too_long_for_one_line):
              do_something()

    _Yes:_

            def my_function(
                some_args,
                that_would_be,
                too_long_for_one_line):

              do_something()

    *Note:* For function definitions, the first arg is on its own line, and there's a blank line between the end of the args and the first line of the function.

2. Prefer accessors/getters for all but the most trivial externally accessible variables, for which you may use properties.


3. Try the least magical implementation first. Avoid metaclasses and overriding `__getattr__` unless absolutely necessary.


4. If you use print, use it as a function, preferably importing it from `__future__`. This way
your code is compliant with both Python 2.6+ and 3.x.

    _Bad:_

          print 'Hello world'
          print >> sys.stderr, 'Get off my lawn!'
          print 'Processing...',

    _Better:_

          print('Hello world')

    _Best:_

          from __future__ import print_function
          print('Hello world')
          print('Get off my lawn!', file=sys.stderr)
          print('Processing...', end='')


5. Only use new style classes, e.g.:

          class MyClass(object):
            ...

    instead of

          class MyClass:
            ...


6. If your class has exceptional behavior, prefer to declare your exceptions inside your class, e.g.:

          class GarbageCollector(object):
            class CouldNotRecoverEnoughSpaceError(Exception): pass
            def __init__(self):
              ...
            def collect(self):
              ...
              raise GarbageCollector.CouldNotRecoverEnoughSpaceError("Path %s insufficient." % ...)

    This means that if the user wants to catch exceptions, they do not need tons of import statements.

    It is occasionally fine to put user-defined exceptions elsewhere, e.g. in `__init__.py` for libraries. Whatever you can do to avoid excessive imports.


7. Do not rely upon `__file__`. Instead prefer `pkgutil`, `pkg_resources` and `__name__`. By using the latter, you may run inside a zip archive or in an exploded directory structure and it will work the same way.

    _No:_

          with open(os.path.join(os.path.dirname(__file__), 'resources', 'data.txt')) as fp:
          data = fp.read()

    _Yes:_

          from pkg_resources import resource_string
          data = resource_string(__name__, os.path.join('resources', 'data.txt'))


8. Utilize context managers as much as possible, especially with files and locks:

    _Yes:_

          with open("my_file.txt") as fp:
            data = fp.read()

          lock = threading.Lock()
          with lock:
            print('Holding the lock!')

    _No:_

          data = open("my_file.txt").read()

    _Nor:_

          fp = open("my_file.txt")
          data = fp.read()
          fp.close()

    For things like `zipfile` which does not have a context manager in Python 2.6, use `contextlib.closing`:

          from contextlib import closing
          with closing(zipfile('/tmp/myfile.zip')) as zf:
            data = zf.read('manifest.txt')


9. When catching exceptions, use new-style grammar:

    _Yes:_

          try:
            val = array[key]
          except KeyError as e:
            print('Could not access key: %s!' % e)

    _No:_

          try:
            val = array[key]
          except KeyError, e:
            print >> sys.stderr, 'Could not access key %s!' % e


10. Use the os module for path manipulation as much as possible, e.g. `os.path.join`.

    Similarly, avoid string concatenation operations as much as possible. `''.join([a,b,c,d])` will likely be much faster than `a+b+c+d`.


11. Never put dashes in Python filenames because you will not be able to import code from them. Use underscores instead.


12. Use string.format _only_ when you need to interpolate strings with both keyword and positional
arguments. Basic printf-style string interpolation is sufficient 99.9% of the time and does not
require learning a new DSL.


## Tips for 2.x / 3.x interoperability:

1. Remember that in 3.x all strings are unicode. `basestring` no longer exists, so if you're in
   science, do the following to test for stringyness:

          from twitter.common.lang import Compatibility
          if isinstance(input, Compatibility.string):
            ...

2. In most situations, you probably want to open files in 'rb' or 'wb' mode instead.

3. Use `Compatibility` from `twitter.common.lang` for:
    - `Compatibility.integer`
    - `Compatibility.real`
    - `Compatibility.PY2` and `Compatibility.PY3` booleans
    - `Compatibility.exec_function` since `exec` is no longer a statement in Python 3.x.
    - `Compatibility.StringIO` to avoid complex `try`/`except ImportError` chains.

4. Avoid metaclasses because syntax has changed. But if you must use a metaclass, do not use the `__metaclass__ = MyMetaclass` syntax, instead:

          MyMetaclassBase = MyMetaclass('MyMetaclassBase', (object,), {})
          class MyClassThatNeedsAMetaclass(MyMetaclassBase):
            ...

5. Relative imports must be .-delimited, so from within `application.py` in `foo/bar` along with `baz.py`:

    _Yes:_

          from foo.bar import baz

    _or (for same-level imports):_

          from .baz import poop

    _No (won't work on Python 3.x):_

          import baz
          from baz import poop

6. Almost always use list/generator comprehensions instead of `filter` or `map`. The latter should only be used in the specific circumstance where a) the equivalent comprehension would be significantly longer; and b) the use case is clearly consume-once (for example, as input to `for` loops).

    Further, `filter`s or `map`s should _never_ be returned from functions, or as part of an API - this is particularly dangerous with the change in their behaviour between Python 2.x and 3.x (i.e. returning lists in the former and generators in the latter).

    _Yes:_

          odd_numbers = [i for i in range(1, 10) if i % 2]

    _No (different behaviour between Python 2.x/3.x!):_

          odd_numbers = filter(lambda i: i % 2, range(1, 10))

    Similarly, when dealing with dictionaries, prefer the use of their list-returning functions
    over their iterator counterparts, unless performance is demonstrably impacted:

    _Yes:_

          for k, v in my_dict.items():
            ...

    _No (won't work on Python 3.x):_

          for k, v in my_dict.iteritems():
            ...

